# Ribn

In order to be deliver on the promise of full user sovereignty, all decentralized applications (DApps), must enable users to interact with the application while retaining full control of their blockchain keys. Only by controlling their own keys can blockchain users fully guarantee that their crypto remains their own and that they are invulnerable to their signature being “forged.” For this reason, blockchain wallets occupy a critical place in any blockchain “stack.”

Topl’s wallet, known as Ribn, places both accessibility and trustlessness at its core. We believe this dual focus serves Topl’s broader mission of delivering a blockchain with an unsurpassed level of inclusivity.

First, Ribn is a fully cross-platform wallet, capable of being run as a web extension or a mobile application on either iOS or Android. The “write once, deploy everywhere” approach ensures that no platform ever becomes privileged over another. Often, when wallets or other applications are developed for a single platform, even if a wallet is developed for each platform individually, one platform becomes the “preferred” platform favored by the blockchain’s development team(s), even if this results in exclusion of or an inferior experience for a large portion of the blockchain’s community.

Second, Ribn lets users be fully sovereign, requiring them to extend as little trust as possible. In support of this goal, Ribn’s codebase is entirely open source. Any user or interested party is welcome to investigate the Ribn code to ensure that it meets their standards and contains no backdoors or other vulnerabilities.

Equally or more important is the functionality given to users before requiring them to rely on others for the _state_ of the blockchain. The vast majority of users will have their wallets stored on devices that either cannot or simply do not operate as full nodes. This means that their wallet has only a limited view of the blockchain state. It is here that the distinct advantage of Topl’s UTxO ledger design comes into play. In the case of the more common _account-based_ ledger model found in blockchains like Ethereum and Solana, wallets without a full view of the network cannot directly verify the output or execution of smart contracts. Given that in these systems even simple token transfers are performed using smart contracts, ordinary users are effectively dependent on other parties operating full nodes to verify network activity and state for them.

Topl’s design keeps the state of every chain program (Topl’s version of smart contracts) separate as an independent “chain” of UTxOs. In effect, this means that Ribn users can selectively query and verify only the network state relevant to them at that moment, removing need to extend a substantial amount of trust to other parties in the network.
