# Interoperability

Despite or because of the rapid development of multiple independent networks, the question of blockchain interoperability remains open.

Critical for blockchain to reach its potential, interoperability is a tractable problem for any blockchain that has two key characteristics. First, the blockchain must include a mechanism to verifiably lock and unlock assets that users wish to transfer to another chain. Second, the blockchain’s design and development team must remain firmly open to following whichever communication protocol emerges as the dominant standard for interchain communication.

To the first requirement, the Topl Blockchian, as part of its UTxO ledger, is designed to enable extended-UTxOs. eUTxOs can be thought of as self-replicating locks that can be applied to the “boxes” containing tokens that require a certain verifiable condition(s) to be met in order for these tokens to be unlocked. While we will expand in further sections on the advantages of eUTxOs, it will suffice for the present topic to say that it is through eUTxOs that the Topl Blockchain enables the verifiable locking and unlocking of outgoing or incoming assets.

To the first requirement, the Topl Blockchain, as part of its UTxO ledger, is designed to enable extended-UTxOs. EUTxOs can be thought of as self-replicating locks that can be applied to the “boxes” containing tokens requiring verifiable condition(s) to be met in order for these tokens to be unlocked. While we will expand in further sections on the advantages of EUTxOs, it will suffice for now to say that it is through EUTxOs that the Topl Blockchain enables the verifiable locking and unlocking of outgoing or incoming assets.

Beyond our extended-UTxO mechanism, Topl has implemented smart contract functionality via the [Digital Asset Modeling Language (DAML)](https://www.digitalasset.com/developers). Topl's implementation of DAML smart contracts is unique in that these smart contracts exist through domain-separated layer 2 virtual ledgers, where each smart contract maintains its own local state that can both initiate updates to the layer 1 Topl chain underneath as well as react to any changes on the layer 1 chain. Since these smart contracts exist in a quasi-independent state from the Topl layer 1, they can simultaneously be connected to multiple underlying blockchains (or even traditional databases) to form a bridge for the assets or tokens they represent between those ledgers.
